Ingredients
▢1 tablespoon instant coffee – powder or granules
▢¼ cup warm water
▢3 to 4 tablespoon raw sugar or add as required
▢2 cups milk – cold or chilled
▢6 to 8 ice cubes or as needed – optional

In a blender take your instant coffee, raw sugar, add warm water.
Blend for a minute or until the coffee solution becomes frothy and the brown color lightens a bit.
Add 6 to 7 ice cubes. For a thick cold coffee, you can reduce the ice cubes from 2 to 4.
Pour 2 cups cold milk.
Whole milk gives a slightly thicker consistency and is richer. You can opt to make the cold coffee with skimmed milk or low-fat milk. If you decided to add either, then reduce the ¼ cup water to about 2 to 3 tablespoons.
Blend for 1 to 2 minutes or until the milk is mixed evenly with the coffee concoction and you see a nice frothy layer on top.
Pour in glasses and serve cold coffee. The frothy top layer will settle into the beverage as it sits, so it’s best to enjoy blended iced coffee right away.
Video
Cold Coffee
Play Video
Notes
Ingredient and Recipe Notes
Coffee: Use your favorite brand of Instant Coffee. The instant coffee can be finely ground or in granules. 
Sweetener: Use your preferred sweetener. I always add raw sugar but you can experiment with various types of sugar like palm or coconut sugar or sweeteners like maple syrup or honey. 
More coffee: If you prefer a stronger and slightly bitter taste in your cold coffee, increase the amount of instant coffee to 1.5 or 2 tablespoon. 
Scaling: This recipe yields approximately 2 beverages that are about 8 to 10 oz each. You can double ingredients for larger drinks or more servings.
 
Variations
Make a rich Coffee Milkshake: You can swap the ice cubes for a scoop of vanilla ice cream to make a thicker and creamy milkshake-like cold coffee. Here is a full Coffee Milkshake recipe you might want to check out!
Make it rich and creamy: Add about ¼ cup of light or whipping cream while blending to make your cold coffee rich and creamy. You may need to add some sugar if you include cream. So do check the taste after the coffee is blended and add more sugar as needed. 
Make it low fat: Use skimmed milk or your preferred low fat milk. If using skimmed milk or low-fat milk, then just reduce the ¼ cup water to about 2 to 3 tablespoons.
Make it vegan: Substitute your preferred plant milk, such as almond milk, oat milk, or soy milk to make a vegan-friendly blended iced coffee shake.
Make flavored blended cold coffee: Feel free to add a 1 ounce (2 tablespoons) shot of your favorite flavored syrup to the recipe. You can make a vanilla, hazelnut, or amaretto coffee shake – whatever you like!
Make Mocha Cold Coffee: For a chocolate mocha cold coffee, add 1 tablespoon of cocoa powder or chocolate syrup before you blend for a second time.